{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Using the MovieLens Tag Genome Dataset 2021 (a list of over 60000 movies, with the oldest film on it released in 1874) I decided to graph the top ten most frequently used words in movie titles by genre. In order to make this interesting, I decided to omit articles like \'93a,\'94 \'93an,\'94 and \'93the,\'94 as well as some other uninteresting prepositions. It should be noted that a good chunk of the movies listed are tagged with, and therefore considered under, multiple genres. This means there is some overlap between similar genres like action and adventure, as well as romance and comedy (lots of overlap for romantic comedies).\
I decided to output data for 15 genres: action, adventure, animation, children, comedy, crime, drama, documentary, fantasy, musical, mystery, romance, thriller, sci-fi, and war. \
\
Here are some things that stand out:\
\
-For about half of the genres tested, there is one main frontrunner for more occurrences while the rest of the top ten are closer together. \
\
-The word that the 15 genres most have in common is the word \'93man\'94\'97appearing in eight of the 15 graphs. The word \'93no\'94 is a close second (7 times).\
\
-There aren\'92t many surprises on this list\'97meaning that the top ten for each genre is close to what I would have guessed. Maybe I\'92m being a bit presumptuous, but I would say that this reflects the fact that a lot of movies tend to play it safe. Studios aren\'92t always willing to take risks, so it would make sense that titles would lean toward spelling out subject matter. \
\
-Another word that appears multiple times on different graphs is the word \'93movie.\'94 Very interesting how many movie titles sort of \'93break the fourth wall\'94 in this way! It is also worth noting that this word seems more likely to occur for a more \'93fun\'94 genre that is less likely to take itself seriously, such as comedy or children\'92s movies. \
\
SOURCE:\
https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/tag-genome-2021/\
\
}
